Data Converter updates (#1932)
temporalio/documentation: docs-src/prod-readiness-context/data-encryption.md

---
id: data-encryption
title: How to encrypt data using a custom Data Converter
description: Using encryption in your custom Data Converter ensures that all your sensitive application data is secure when handled by the Temporal Server.
sidebar_label: Data Encryption
tags:
  - guide-context
  - production-readiness
---

Temporal stores and persists the data handled in your Workflow Execution.

> For example, any data that is persisted in the following contexts is stored in the Workflow Execution Event History:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, any of the following objects is persisted in the Workflow Execution Event History:
```

to convoluted

> - inputs to your Workflows, Activities, and Child Workflows

Reviewer: inputs and outputs/results

- inputs to your Signals
- metadata information
- results of Local Activities, Side Effects
- Search Attributes
- Application Errors and Failures.

> Encrypting this data at your application-level ensures that all your sensitive application data is secure when handled by the Temporal Server. It also ensures that your data exists unencrypted only on the Client and the Worker process that is executing the Workflows and Activities, on hosts that you control.

Reviewer: Can't encrypt a Search Attribute or metadata. We probably should structure it differently.

Author: updated

To encrypt your data, configure your custom encryption logic with a [`PayloadCodec`](/concepts/what-is-a-payload-codec) and set it with a [custom Data Converter](/concepts/what-is-a-custom-data-converter).

A [`PayloadCodec`](/concepts/what-is-a-payload-codec) transforms your payloads, for example by implementing compression and/or encryption and decryption, and is an optional step that happens between the wire and the [Payload Converter](/concepts/what-is-a-payload-converter):

```bash

> Temporal Server <--> Wire <--> Payload Codec <--> Payload Converter <--> User code

Reviewer: same note as in another place like this

```

A `PayloadCodec` implementation is applied with a custom Data Converter in your Client options.

> You can run your `PayloadCodec` [remotely](/concepts/what-is-remote-data-encoding) with a [Codec Server](/concepts/what-is-a-codec-server), and use the Codec Server endpoints in your WebUI and tctl to decode your encrypted paylods locally.

Reviewer: I would separate in into it's own sub-article "How to get decrypted data in WebUI if using encryption?"
So it doesn't look like advice for users to use RemoteDataConverters on worker hosts.

Author: reworded this

> However, if you plan on setting up remote data encoding for all your payloads, ensure that you consider all security implications of running encryptions remotely before implementing it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
However, if you plan on setting up Remote Data Encoder, ensure that you consider all security implications of running encryptions remotely before implementing it.
```
Doesn't matter for all or not, the same considerations should be taken just by bringing this infrastructure piece at all.

In codec implementations, we recommend running the function (whether it be compressing, encrypting, etc) on the entire input Payload, and putting the result in a new Payload's data field. That way, the input Payload's headers are preserved.

Examples for implementing compression:

> - [ZlibCodec in Go](https://github.com/temporalio/sdk-go/blob/706516c7077ba2e9b40304aeddbed47e25b2a68f/converter/codec.go#L77-L105)

Reviewer: Java version: https://github.com/temporalio/sdk-java/blob/2c29eda4558f4063804c816481a9f9acf132f65c/temporal-sdk/src/main/java/io/temporal/payload/codec/ZlibPayloadCodec.java#L41

> - [Encryption Data Converter](https://github.com/temporalio/samples-go/blob/15be864c80d4d983ebb8a8fbd3fa5263bcef6930/encryption/data_converter.go#L100-L126) in Go's encryption sample.

Reviewer: Java version: https://github.com/temporalio/sdk-java/blob/7f2679c4ac53b19f6dfe54913cc13ad0dec84179/temporal-sdk/src/main/java/io/temporal/common/converter/CodecDataConverter.java#L50

---
id: data-encryption
title: How to encrypt data using a custom Data Converter

> description: Using encryption in your custom Data Converter ensures that all your sensitive application data is secure when handled by the Temporal Server.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
description: Configure your custom encryption logic with `PayloadCodec` and set it with a custom Data Converter.
```

sidebar_label: Data Encryption
tags:
  - guide-context
  - production-readiness
---

Temporal Server stores and persists the data handled in your Workflow Execution.

> For example, any following objects are persisted in the Workflow Execution Event History:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For example, the following objects are persisted in the Workflow Execution Event History:
```

> - inputs and outputs/results in your [Workflow](/concepts/what-is-a-workflow-execution), [Activity](/concepts/what-is-an-activity-execution), and [Child Workflow](/concepts/what-is-a-child-workflow-execution)
> - inputs to your [Signal](/concepts/what-is-a-signal)
> - metadata information
> - results of [Local Activity](/concepts/what-is-a-local-activity), [Side Effects](/concepts/what-is-a-side-effect)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Inputs and outputs/results in your [Workflow](/concepts/what-is-a-workflow-execution), [Activity](/concepts/what-is-an-activity-execution), and [Child Workflow](/concepts/what-is-a-child-workflow-execution)
- Inputs to your [Signal](/concepts/what-is-a-signal)
- Metadata information
- Results of [Local Activity](/concepts/what-is-a-local-activity) [Side Effects](/concepts/what-is-a-side-effect)
```

- [Search Attributes](/concepts/what-is-a-search-attribute)
- [Application errors and failures](/kb/failures).

> You can encrypt this data (except for Search Attributes and metadata) to ensure that any sensitive application data is secure when handled by the Temporal Server. It also ensures that your data exists unencrypted only on the Client and the Worker process that is executing the Workflows and Activities, on hosts that you control.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can encrypt this data (except for Search Attributes and metadata) to ensure that any sensitive application data is secure when handled by the Temporal Server.
This technique also ensures that your data exists unencrypted only on the Client and the Worker process that is executing the Workflows and Activities, on hosts that you control.
```

> To encrypt your data, configure your custom encryption logic with a [`PayloadCodec`](/concepts/what-is-a-payload-codec) and set it with a [custom Data Converter](/concepts/what-is-a-custom-data-converter).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To encrypt your data, configure your custom encryption logic with [`PayloadCodec`](/concepts/what-is-a-payload-codec) and set it with a [custom Data Converter](/concepts/what-is-a-custom-data-converter).
```

> A [`PayloadCodec`](/concepts/what-is-a-payload-codec) transforms your payloads, for example by implementing compression and/or encryption and decryption, and is an optional step that happens between the wire and the [Payload Converter](/concepts/what-is-a-payload-converter):

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A [`PayloadCodec`](/concepts/what-is-a-payload-codec) transforms your payloads (for example, by implementing compression and/or encryption and decryption) and is an optional step that happens between the wire and the [Payload Converter](/concepts/what-is-a-payload-converter):
```

```bash
User code <--> Payload Converter <--> Payload Codec <--> Wire <--> Temporal Server
```

A `PayloadCodec` implementation is applied with a custom Data Converter in your Client options.

> You can run your `PayloadCodec` with a [Codec Server](/concepts/what-is-a-codec-server), and use the Codec Server endpoints in your WebUI and tctl to decode your encrypted payloads locally. See [Decoding payloads on the Web UI and tctl](/concepts/what-is-remote-data-encoding#decoding-payloads-on-the-web-ui-and-tctl) for details.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can run your `PayloadCodec` with a [Codec Server](/concepts/what-is-a-codec-server) and use the Codec Server endpoints in Web UI and tctl to decode your encrypted payloads locally.
For details, see [Decoding payloads on the Web UI and tctl](/concepts/what-is-remote-data-encoding#decoding-payloads-on-the-web-ui-and-tctl).
```

> However, if you plan on setting up remote data encoding for your data, ensure that you consider all security implications of running encryptions remotely before implementing it.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
However, if you plan to set up remote data encoding for your data, ensure that you consider all security implications of running encryption remotely before implementing it.
```

> In codec implementations, we recommend running the function (whether it be compressing, encrypting, etc) on the entire input Payload, and putting the result in a new Payload's data field with a different `encoding` metadata field. That way, the input Payload's metadata is preserved.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In codec implementations, we recommend running the function (such as compressing or encrypting) on the entire input payload, and putting the result in the data field of a new payload with a different `encoding` metadata field.
That way, the input payload's metadata is preserved.
```

---
id: data-encryption
title: How to encrypt data using a custom Data Converter
description: Configure your custom encryption logic with `PayloadCodec` and set it with a custom Data Converter.

> sidebar_label: Data Encryption

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
sidebar_label: Data encryption
```

tags:
  - guide-context
  - production-readiness
---

Temporal Server stores and persists the data handled in your Workflow Execution.
Encrypting this data to ensures that any sensitive application data is secure when handled by the Temporal Server.

For example, if you have sensitive information passed in the following objects that are persisted in the Workflow Execution Event History, use encryption to secure it:

- Inputs and outputs/results in your [Workflow](/concepts/what-is-a-workflow-execution), [Activity](/concepts/what-is-an-activity-execution), and [Child Workflow](/concepts/what-is-a-child-workflow-execution)
- Inputs to your [Signal](/concepts/what-is-a-signal)
- [Memo](/concepts/what-is-a-memo)
- Results of [Local Activity](/concepts/what-is-a-local-activity), [Side Effects](/concepts/what-is-a-side-effect)

> - [Application errors and failures](/kb/failures).

Author: I've changed this to hopefully be clearer.

A [`PayloadCodec`](/concepts/what-is-a-payload-codec) transforms your payloads (for example, by implementing compression and/or encryption and decryption) and is an optional step that happens between the wire and the [Payload Converter](/concepts/what-is-a-payload-converter):

```bash
User code <--> Payload Converter <--> Payload Codec <--> Wire <--> Temporal Server
```

A `PayloadCodec` implementation is applied with a custom Data Converter in your Client options.

You can run your `PayloadCodec` with a [Codec Server](/concepts/what-is-a-codec-server) and use the Codec Server endpoints in Web UI and tctl to decode your encrypted payloads locally.
For details, see [Decoding payloads on the Web UI and tctl](/concepts/what-is-remote-data-encoding#decoding-payloads-on-the-web-ui-and-tctl).

However, if you plan to set up remote data encoding for your data, ensure that you consider all security implications of running encryption remotely before implementing it.

In codec implementations, we recommend running the function (such as compression or encryption) on the entire input payload, and putting the result in the data field of a new payload with a different `encoding` metadata field.

> That way, the input payload's metadata is preserved, and when the encoded payload is sent to be decoded, you can verify the metadata field before applying the decryption.

Author: Yes; I need a bit of explanation on this though. Will check in with you and update accordingly.

> That way, the input payload's metadata is preserved, and when the encoded payload is sent to be decoded, you can verify the metadata field before applying the decryption.

Author: Added a note
`Note that if your data is not encoded, we recommend passing the unencoded data to the decode function instead of failing the conversion.`

Examples for implementing encryption:

- [Go sample](https://github.com/temporalio/samples-go/tree/main/encryption)
- [Java sample](https://github.com/temporalio/samples-java/tree/main/src/main/java/io/temporal/samples/encryptedpayloads)
- [TypeScript sample](https://github.com/temporalio/samples-typescript/tree/main/encryption)

> - [Python sample](https://github.com/temporalio/samples-python/tree/main/encryption)

Author: fixed!

Examples for implementing compression:

- [Go sample](https://github.com/temporalio/sdk-go/blob/706516c7077ba2e9b40304aeddbed47e25b2a68f/converter/codec.go#L77-L105)

> - [Java sample](https://github.com/temporalio/sdk-java/blob/2c29eda4558f4063804c816481a9f9acf132f65c/temporal-sdk/src/main/java/io/temporal/payload/codec/ZlibPayloadCodec.java#L41)

Reviewer 3: Do not link to specific commits or lines (code becomes stale). Can just link to API docs for Zlib codecs in each language.

Author: linked to API ref pages.

However, if you plan to set up [remote data encoding](/concepts/what-is-remote-data-encoding) for your data, ensure that you consider all security implications of running encryption remotely before implementing it.

In codec implementations, we recommend running the function (such as compression or encryption) on the entire input Payload and putting the result in the data field of a new Payload with a different encoding metadata field.
Using this technique ensures that the input Payload's metadata is preserved.
When the encoded Payload is sent to be decoded, you can verify the metadata field before applying the decryption.
If your Payload is _not_ encoded, we recommend passing the unencoded data to the decode function instead of failing the conversion.

Examples for implementing encryption:

- [Go sample](https://github.com/temporalio/samples-go/tree/main/encryption)
- [Java sample](https://github.com/temporalio/samples-java/tree/main/src/main/java/io/temporal/samples/encryptedpayloads)
- [Python sample](https://github.com/temporalio/samples-python/tree/main/encryption)
- [TypeScript sample](https://github.com/temporalio/samples-typescript/tree/main/encryption)

> References for implementing compression:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Examples for implementing compression (note that better compression algorithms should probably be used):
```

Author: lol, I'll reframe it to "Examples for implementing compression" but leave the note part out. Best to let the reader decide if there are better compression algorithms they can use; this is just an example set for reference.
